Add Vercel hosting guide (#543)
grammyjs/website: site/docs/hosting/vercel.md

# Hosting: Vercel Serverless Functions

> This tutorial will guide you how to deploy a Telegram bot to [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) by using [Vercel Serverless Functions](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/serverless-functions). We also assume that you have a Vercel account already.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial will guide you on how to deploy your bot to [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) by using [Vercel Serverless Functions](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/serverless-functions), assuming that you already have a [Vercel](https://vercel.com) account.
```

## Project Structure

> The only requisite you need to add to your project in order to use **Vercel Serverless Functions** is to create your bot code within an `api/` folder just like the example of below. You can check [the official Vercel documentation](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/serverless-functions#deploying-serverless-functions) for more info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only prerequisite to get started with **Vercel Serverless Functions** is to move your code to the `api/` directory as shown below. You can also see [Vercel's documentation](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/serverless-functions#deploying-serverless-functions) for more on this.
```

```asciiart:no-line-numbers
.
├── node_modules/
├── build/
├── api/
│   └── bot.ts
├── package.json
├── package-lock.json
└── tsconfig.json
```

> If you are using _TypeScript_ you probably want to add `@vercel/node` but it is not mandatory to follow this guide. Anyway, feel free to install it by typing `npm i -D @vercel/node`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using TypeScript, you might as well want to install `@vercel/node` as a dev dependency, but it is not mandatory to follow this guide.
```

> ## Vercel.json file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The `vercel.json`
```

> The next step is to create a `vercel.json` file **at the root** of your project. The content of that file is the following for this example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to create a `vercel.json` file at the top level of your project. For our example structure, its content would look be:
```

```json
{
  "functions": {
    "api/bot.ts": {
      "memory": 1024,
      "maxDuration": 10
    }
  }
}
```

> > The free version of vercel has restrictions on quotas, which we need to enable in the configuration file vercel.json. [grammY examples repo](https://github.com/grammyjs/examples/blob/main/vercel-bot/api/index.ts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Vercel's free subscription has restrictions on quotas, which we need to enable in the configuration file, `vercel.json` ([grammY Examples](https://github.com/grammyjs/examples/blob/main/vercel-bot/api/index.ts)).
```

> If you want more information about the commands that you can add to that file, [check the official documentation](https://vercel.com/docs/project-configuration).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to learn more about this configuration file, see [its documentation](https://vercel.com/docs/project-configuration).
```

> ## Tsconfig.json file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuring TypeScript
```

> In our `tsconfig.json` we have to define specify our output directory as `build/`, and our root directory is `api/`. This is important since we will specify them in Vercel's deploy options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our `tsconfig.json` we have to define specify our output directory as `build/`, and our root directory is `api/`.
This is important since we will specify them in Vercel's deploy options.
```

> In our `tsconfig.json` we have to define specify our output directory as `build/`\*, and our root directory is `api/`. This is important since we will specify them in Vercel's deploy options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our `tsconfig.json` we have to define specify our output directory as `build/`, and our root directory is `api/`. This is important since we will specify them in Vercel's deploy options.
```

> In this case, in `tsconfig.json` we can define our _output directory_, for this case is **build** as well as our root directory is **api**. This is important because we will have to add it in the Vercel deploy options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our `tsconfig.json` we have to define specify our output directory as `build/`*, and our root directory is `api/`. This is important since we will specify them in Vercel's deploy options.
```

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {

>     "target": "es2016",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "target": "ES2019",
```

    "module": "commonjs",
    "rootDir": "./api",
    "moduleResolution": "node",
    "resolveJsonModule": true,
    "outDir": "./build",
    "allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true,
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "strict": true,
    "skipLibCheck": true
  }
}
```

> ## Our bot.ts or bot.js file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The Main File
```

> Regardless if we are using TypeScript or JavaScript, we should have a file through which our bot runs. The only thing we have to add at the end of it is this line:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of using TypeScript or JavaScript, we should have a file through which our bot runs that should end like this:
```

```ts
import { Bot, webhookCallback } from "grammy";

> const bot = new Bot(""); // <-- put your authentication token between the ""

Reviewer: FR?

Author: Sorry but I don't understand you. What does FR means?

Reviewer: For real? Do you put the token there or inside an environment variable?

Author: ok! I got it! I'm using `dotenv` but for this example I just followed [the grammY getting started](https://grammy.dev/guide/getting-started.html), but yeah, it's better to do `const bot = new Bot(process.env.BOT_TOKEN);

Reviewer 2: To be fair, the grammY getting started guide makes the same mistake. This is intentional: it opts for the fastest setup possible, rather than following best practices all the way. This is left to the users for a later point.

This deployment guide is a good point to start using env vars. @roj1512 thanks for pointing it out :)

Reviewer: @jgcarrillo Can you modify it to the better way? :)

Author: Sure! thanks for the review and for this amazing library. Anything you need to contribute to I'm in!

> import { Bot, webhookCallback } from 'grammy';
> 
> const bot = new Bot(process.env.BOT_TOKEN); // <-- use an environment variable with dotenv dependency
> 
> export default webhookCallback(bot, 'http'); // <-- This line will do the trick!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { Bot, webhookCallback } from "grammy";

const bot = new Bot(process.env.BOT_TOKEN); // <-- use an environment variable with dotenv dependency

export default webhookCallback(bot, "http"); // <-- This line will do the trick!
```

Assuming you have a Vercel account and have your GitHub account connected to Vercel, add a new project and select your GitHub bot repository. In the _Build & Development Settings_:

- Output directory: `build`
- Install command: `npm install`

Don't forget to add **environment variables** such as your **bot token**. Once you have done, deploy it!

## Setting up the Telegram webhook

Your bot is ready. The last step is to add the webhook that connects your deployment with Telegram and yout bot token. Here is the command you need to run in your browser:

`https://api.telegram.org/bot{bot-key}/setWebhook?url={host-url}`

The _host url_ is a little tricky, because you need to use your **Vercel app domain following with the route to the bot code**, for example `https://appname.vercel.app/api/bot`. Where `bot` is your `bot.ts` or `bot.js` file.

If everything is ok you should now see this in your browser window.

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "result": true,
  "description": "Webhook was set"
}
```

Other useful commands are:

- Info about webhook: `https://api.telegram.org/bot{bot-key}/getWebhookInfo`
- Delete webhook: `https://api.telegram.org/bot{bot-key}/deleteWebhook`

> Congratulations! your bot is ready. Head over to Telegram and try it!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations!
Your bot should now be up and running.
```

# Hosting: Vercel Serverless Functions

This tutorial will guide you on how to deploy your bot to [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) by using [Vercel Serverless Functions](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/serverless-functions), assuming that you already have a [Vercel](https://vercel.com) account.

## Project Structure

> The only prerequisite to get started with **Vercel Serverless Functions** is to move your code to the `api/` directory as shown below. You can also see [Vercel's documentation](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/serverless-functions#deploying-serverless-functions) for more on this.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The only prerequisite to get started with **Vercel Serverless Functions** is to move your code to the `api/` directory as shown below.
You can also see [Vercel's documentation](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/serverless-functions#deploying-serverless-functions) for more on this.
```

```asciiart:no-line-numbers
.
├── node_modules/
├── build/
├── api/
│   └── bot.ts
├── package.json
├── package-lock.json
└── tsconfig.json
```

If you are using TypeScript, you might as well want to install `@vercel/node` as a dev dependency, but it is not mandatory to follow this guide.

## Configuring Vercel

> The next step is to create a `vercel.json` file at the top level of your project. For our example structure, its content would look be:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The next step is to create a `vercel.json` file at the top level of your project.
For our example structure, its content would look be:
```

```json
{
  "functions": {
    "api/bot.ts": {
      "memory": 1024,
      "maxDuration": 10
    }
  }
}
```

> Vercel's free subscription has restrictions on quotas, which we need to enable in the configuration file, `vercel.json` ([grammY Examples](https://github.com/grammyjs/examples/blob/main/vercel-bot/api/index.ts)).

If you want to learn more about this configuration file, see [its documentation](https://vercel.com/docs/project-configuration).

## Configuring TypeScript

In our `tsconfig.json` we have to define specify our output directory as `build/`, and our root directory is `api/`.
This is important since we will specify them in Vercel's deploy options.

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "ES2019",
    "module": "commonjs",
    "rootDir": "./api",
    "moduleResolution": "node",
    "resolveJsonModule": true,
    "outDir": "./build",
    "allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true,
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "strict": true,
    "skipLibCheck": true
  }
}
```

## The Main File

Regardless of using TypeScript or JavaScript, we should have a file through which our bot runs that should end like this:

```ts
import { Bot, webhookCallback } from "grammy";

> const bot = new Bot(process.env.BOT_TOKEN); // <-- use an environment variable with dotenv dependency

Reviewer 3: I think mentioning the `dotenv` dependency is unnecessary. I believe Vercel has their own special storage for env, which is more secure than using `dotenv`. What do you think?
```suggestion
const bot = new Bot(process.env.BOT_TOKEN); // <-- insert your bot token from environment variable
```

Author: Yes you're right. But when I started my project I didn't plan on deploying it in Vercel. Out of habit I usually add this dependency to my projects so as not to have to depend on one hosting or another.

export default webhookCallback(bot, "http"); // <-- This line will do the trick!
```

> ## Go to Vercel website

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Go to Vercel Website
```

Assuming you have a Vercel account and have your GitHub account connected to Vercel, add a new project and select your GitHub bot repository. In the _Build & Development Settings_:

- Output directory: `build`
- Install command: `npm install`

> Don't forget to add **environment variables** such as your **bot token**. Once you have done, deploy it!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Don't forget to add **environment variables** such as your **bot token**.
Once you have done, deploy it!
```

> ## Setting up the Telegram webhook

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Setting up the Telegram Webhook
```

> Your bot is ready. The last step is to add the webhook that connects your deployment with Telegram and yout bot token. Here is the command you need to run in your browser:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Your bot is ready. The last step is to add the webhook that connects your deployment with Telegram and yout bot token.
Here is the command you need to run in your browser:
```

`https://api.telegram.org/bot{bot-key}/setWebhook?url={host-url}`

> The _host url_ is a little tricky, because you need to use your **Vercel app domain following with the route to the bot code**, for example `https://appname.vercel.app/api/bot`. Where `bot` is your `bot.ts` or `bot.js` file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The _host url_ is a little tricky, because you need to use your **Vercel app domain following with the route to the bot code**, for example `https://appname.vercel.app/api/bot`.
Where `bot` is your `bot.ts` or `bot.js` file.
```

If everything is ok you should now see this in your browser window.

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "result": true,
  "description": "Webhook was set"
}
```

Other useful commands are:

> - Info about webhook: `https://api.telegram.org/bot{bot-key}/getWebhookInfo`
> - Delete webhook: `https://api.telegram.org/bot{bot-key}/deleteWebhook`

Reviewer 3: For better visibility.
```suggestion
- Info about webhook: `https://api.telegram.org/bot{BOT_TOKEN}/getWebhookInfo`
- Delete webhook: `https://api.telegram.org/bot{BOT_TOKEN}/deleteWebhook`
```

# Hosting: Vercel Serverless Functions

This tutorial will guide you on how to deploy your bot to [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) by using [Vercel Serverless Functions](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/serverless-functions), assuming that you already have a [Vercel](https://vercel.com) account.

## Project Structure

The only prerequisite to get started with **Vercel Serverless Functions** is to move your code to the `api/` directory as shown below.
You can also see [Vercel's documentation](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/serverless-functions#deploying-serverless-functions) for more on this.

```asciiart:no-line-numbers
.
├── node_modules/
├── build/
├── api/
│   └── bot.ts
├── package.json
├── package-lock.json
└── tsconfig.json
```

> If you are using TypeScript, you might as well want to install `@vercel/node` as a dev dependency, but it is not mandatory to follow this guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using TypeScript, you might as well want to install `@vercel/node` as a dev dependency, but it is not mandatory for following this guide.
```

For our example structure, its content would be:

```json
{
  "functions": {
    "api/bot.ts": {
      "memory": 1024,
      "maxDuration": 10
    }
  }
}
```

> If you want to use Vercel's free subscription, your `memory` and `maxDuration` configurations might look like above to not bypass its limits.

If you want to learn more about the `vercel.json` configuration file, see [its documentation](https://vercel.com/docs/project-configuration).

## Configuring TypeScript

In our `tsconfig.json`, we have to specify our output directory as `build/`, and our root directory as `api/`.
This is important since we will specify them in Vercel's deploy options.

```json{5,8}
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "ES2019",
    "module": "commonjs",
    "rootDir": "./api",
    "moduleResolution": "node",
    "resolveJsonModule": true,
    "outDir": "./build",
    "allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true,
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "strict": true,
    "skipLibCheck": true
  }
}
```

## The Main File

Regardless of using TypeScript or JavaScript, we should have a source file through which our bot runs.
It should look roughly like this:

```ts
import { Bot, webhookCallback } from "grammy";

> const bot = new Bot(process.env.BOT_TOKEN); // <-- insert your bot token from environment variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const bot = new Bot(process.env.BOT_TOKEN); // <-- gets your bot token from environment variable
```

> export default webhookCallback(bot, "http"); // <-- This line will do the trick!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export default webhookCallback(bot, "http");
```

```

> ## Go to Vercel Website

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## In Vercel's Dashboard
```

> Assuming you have a Vercel account and have your GitHub account connected to Vercel, add a new project and select your GitHub bot repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming that you already have a Vercel account your GitHub is connected to it, add a new project and select your bot's repository.
```

> In the _Build & Development Settings_:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In _Build & Development Settings_:
```

- Output directory: `build`
- Install command: `npm install`

> Don't forget to add **environment variables** such as your **bot token** in the environment variables inside Vercel settings. Once you have done, deploy it!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't forget to add the secrets such as your bot token as environment variables in the settings.
Once you have done that, you can deploy it!
```

> ## Setting Up the Telegram Webhook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setting the Webhook
```

> Your bot is ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The last step is to add the webhook that connects your deployment with Telegram and your bot token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last step is to connect your Vercel app with Telegram.
```

> Here is the URL you need to visit using your browser:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examine the below URL to visit it with your browser:
```

```md:no-line-numbers
https://api.telegram.org/bot<BOT_TOKEN>/setWebhook?url=<HOST_URL>
```

The `HOST_URL` is a little tricky, because you need to use your **Vercel app domain following with the route to the bot code**, for example `https://appname.vercel.app/api/bot`.

> Where `bot` is your `bot.ts` or `bot.js` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where `bot` is referring to your `bot.ts` or `bot.js` file.
```

> If everything was successful, you should now see this in your browser window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should then see a response like this:
```

If you want to learn more about this configuration file, see [its documentation](https://vercel.com/docs/project-configuration).

## Configuring TypeScript

In our `tsconfig.json` we have to define specify our output directory as `build/`, and our root directory is `api/`.
This is important since we will specify them in Vercel's deploy options.

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "ES2019",
    "module": "commonjs",
    "rootDir": "./api",
    "moduleResolution": "node",
    "resolveJsonModule": true,
    "outDir": "./build",
    "allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true,
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "strict": true,
    "skipLibCheck": true
  }
}
```

## The Main File

Regardless of using TypeScript or JavaScript, we should have a file through which our bot runs that should end like this:

```ts
import { Bot, webhookCallback } from "grammy";

const bot = new Bot(process.env.BOT_TOKEN); // <-- insert your bot token from environment variable

export default webhookCallback(bot, "http"); // <-- This line will do the trick!
```

## Go to Vercel Website

> Assuming you have a Vercel account and have your GitHub account connected to Vercel, add a new project and select your GitHub bot repository. In the _Build & Development Settings_:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Assuming you have a Vercel account and have your GitHub account connected to Vercel, add a new project and select your GitHub bot repository.
In the _Build & Development Settings_:
```

- Output directory: `build`
- Install command: `npm install`

Don't forget to add **environment variables** such as your **bot token**.
Once you have done, deploy it!

## Setting up the Telegram Webhook

> Your bot is ready. The last step is to add the webhook that connects your deployment with Telegram and yout bot token.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Your bot is ready.
The last step is to add the webhook that connects your deployment with Telegram and yout bot token.
```

```asciiart:no-line-numbers
.
├── node_modules/
├── build/
├── api/
│   └── bot.ts
├── package.json
├── package-lock.json
└── tsconfig.json
```

If you are using TypeScript, you might as well want to install `@vercel/node` as a dev dependency, but it is not mandatory to follow this guide.

## Configuring Vercel

The next step is to create a `vercel.json` file at the top level of your project.
For our example structure, its content would look be:

```json
{
  "functions": {
    "api/bot.ts": {
      "memory": 1024,
      "maxDuration": 10
    }
  }
}
```

> Vercel's free subscription has restrictions on quotas, which we need to enable in the configuration file, `vercel.json` ([grammY Examples](https://github.com/grammyjs/examples/blob/main/vercel-bot/api/index.ts)).

If you want to learn more about this configuration file, see [its documentation](https://vercel.com/docs/project-configuration).

## Configuring TypeScript

In our `tsconfig.json` we have to define specify our output directory as `build/`, and our root directory is `api/`.
This is important since we will specify them in Vercel's deploy options.

> ```json

Reviewer 3: Add line highlighter
````suggestion
```json{5,8}
````

{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "ES2019",
    "module": "commonjs",
    "rootDir": "./api",
    "moduleResolution": "node",
    "resolveJsonModule": true,
    "outDir": "./build",
    "allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true,
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "strict": true,
    "skipLibCheck": true
  }
}
```

## The Main File

Regardless of using TypeScript or JavaScript, we should have a file through which our bot runs that should end like this:

```ts
import { Bot, webhookCallback } from "grammy";

const bot = new Bot(process.env.BOT_TOKEN); // <-- insert your bot token from environment variable

export default webhookCallback(bot, "http"); // <-- This line will do the trick!
```

## Go to Vercel Website

Assuming you have a Vercel account and have your GitHub account connected to Vercel, add a new project and select your GitHub bot repository.
In the _Build & Development Settings_:

- Output directory: `build`
- Install command: `npm install`

Don't forget to add **environment variables** such as your **bot token**.
Once you have done, deploy it!

## Setting up the Telegram Webhook

Your bot is ready.

> The last step is to add the webhook that connects your deployment with Telegram and yout bot token.

Reviewer 3: Typo
```suggestion
The last step is to add the webhook that connects your deployment with Telegram and your bot token.
```

Here is the command you need to run in your browser:

> `https://api.telegram.org/bot{bot-key}/setWebhook?url={host-url}`

Reviewer 3: ![Screenshot 2022-11-21 at 09-43-19 Hosting Vercel Serverless Functions grammY](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/74030149/203018672-9a34dbc4-aa26-4c50-aec0-8a7aa6c50da1.png)

Use markdown syntax highlighter for better appearance.

````suggestion
```md:no-line-numbers
https://api.telegram.org/bot<BOT_TOKEN>/setWebhook?url=<HOST_URL>
```
````

> The _host url_ is a little tricky, because you need to use your **Vercel app domain following with the route to the bot code**, for example `https://appname.vercel.app/api/bot`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `HOST_URL` is a little tricky, because you need to use your **Vercel app domain following with the route to the bot code**, for example `https://appname.vercel.app/api/bot`.
```

# Hosting: Vercel Serverless Functions

This tutorial will guide you on how to deploy your bot to [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) by using [Vercel Serverless Functions](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/serverless-functions), assuming that you already have a [Vercel](https://vercel.com) account.

## Project Structure

The only prerequisite to get started with **Vercel Serverless Functions** is to move your code to the `api/` directory as shown below.
You can also see [Vercel's documentation](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/functions/serverless-functions#deploying-serverless-functions) for more on this.

```asciiart:no-line-numbers
.
├── node_modules/
├── build/
├── api/
│   └── bot.ts
├── package.json
├── package-lock.json
└── tsconfig.json
```

If you are using TypeScript, you might as well want to install `@vercel/node` as a dev dependency, but it is not mandatory to follow this guide.

## Configuring Vercel

The next step is to create a `vercel.json` file at the top level of your project.
For our example structure, its content would be:

```json
{
  "functions": {
    "api/bot.ts": {
      "memory": 1024,
      "maxDuration": 10
    }
  }
}
```

> > Vercel's free subscription has restrictions on quotas, which we need to enable in the configuration file, `vercel.json` ([grammY Examples](https://github.com/grammyjs/examples/blob/main/vercel-bot/api/index.ts)).

Reviewer: This is unclear. Vercel's free subscription has restrictions on quotas which we need to enable what?

Author: Yes, that's the point: this [this vercel example] (https://github.com/grammyjs/examples/blob/main/vercel-bot/api/index.ts) says that and to avoid possible errors I used the same config in my project. To be honest, I can't verify for myself what would happen if you don't apply the `memory` and `maxDuration` constraints in the `vercel.json` file.

In any case, to avoid any possible problem when using Vercel's free plan, I have left that comment the same as in the example that I am telling you.

Reviewer: Oh you could then rephrase it, maybe like this:

```suggestion
> If you want to use Vercel's free subscription, your `memory` and `maxDuration` might look like above because of its limits.
```

Author: Sure, good idea!

> If you want to learn more about this configuration file, see [its documentation](https://vercel.com/docs/project-configuration).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to learn more about the `vercel.json` configuration file, see [its documentation](https://vercel.com/docs/project-configuration).
```

In the _Build & Development Settings_:

- Output directory: `build`
- Install command: `npm install`

Don't forget to add **environment variables** such as your **bot token** in the environment variables inside Vercel settings. Once you have done, deploy it!

## Setting Up the Telegram Webhook

Your bot is ready.
The last step is to add the webhook that connects your deployment with Telegram and your bot token.
Here is the URL you need to visit using your browser:

```md:no-line-numbers
https://api.telegram.org/bot<BOT_TOKEN>/setWebhook?url=<HOST_URL>
```

The `HOST_URL` is a little tricky, because you need to use your **Vercel app domain following with the route to the bot code**, for example `https://appname.vercel.app/api/bot`.
Where `bot` is your `bot.ts` or `bot.js` file.

If everything was successful, you should now see this in your browser window.

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "result": true,
  "description": "Webhook was set"
}
```

Other useful commands are:

- Info about webhook: `https://api.telegram.org/bot{BOT_TOKEN}/getWebhookInfo`

> - Delete webhook: `https://api.telegram.org/bot{BOT_TOKEN}/deleteWebhook`

Reviewer: I think that this is more than necessary since we have not included it in the other guides, and we’re working on #523.

Author: Ok, so, should I delete it?

Reviewer: Yes, it would be way better.

Reviewer 2: As soon as this PQ is done and merged, we should probably copy this paragraph to the other guides, as well. Not very DRY, but very useful indeed.

Author: Done!

{
  "functions": {
    "api/bot.ts": {
      "memory": 1024,
      "maxDuration": 10
    }
  }
}
```

> Vercel's free subscription has restrictions on quotas, which we need to enable in the configuration file, `vercel.json` ([grammY Examples](https://github.com/grammyjs/examples/blob/main/vercel-bot/api/index.ts)).

If you want to learn more about this configuration file, see [its documentation](https://vercel.com/docs/project-configuration).

## Configuring TypeScript

In our `tsconfig.json`, we have to specify our output directory as `build/`, and our root directory as `api/`.
This is important since we will specify them in Vercel's deploy options.

```json{5,8}
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "ES2019",
    "module": "commonjs",
    "rootDir": "./api",
    "moduleResolution": "node",
    "resolveJsonModule": true,
    "outDir": "./build",
    "allowSyntheticDefaultImports": true,
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "strict": true,
    "skipLibCheck": true
  }
}
```

## The Main File

Regardless of using TypeScript or JavaScript, we should have a source file through which our bot runs.
It should look roughly like this:

```ts
import { Bot, webhookCallback } from "grammy";

> const bot = new Bot(process.env.BOT_TOKEN); // <-- insert your bot token from environment variable

Reviewer 2: Do we need to explain how to set env vars on Vercel?

Author: I don't think it's necessary, I mean, if you've come this far, setting the variables in vercel is simply going to that section, but if necessary I can add it.

Reviewer 2: I think a quick sentence would be nice. Doesn't have be in-depth, just a short reminder along the lines of “remember to go to that section and set them.”

In my experience, anything that can be forgotten will be forgotten by someone at some point, so it's nice to at least mention it :D

Author: Yes, it makes sense. There are a lot of things that need to be configured, and probably without a reminder someone might forget to add the environment variables.

```ts
import { Bot, webhookCallback } from "grammy";

> const bot = new Bot(process.env.BOT_TOKEN);

Reviewer 2: I just noticed that this won't typecheck

Reviewer: This = the code examples?

Reviewer 2: This line. On Node, the env value may be absent but the Bot constructor requires the token.

Author: Do you refer to this?

```ts
if (process.env.BOT_TOKEN === undefined) {
  throw new TypeError('BOT_TOKEN must be provided!');
}

const token: string = process.env.BOT_TOKEN;
const bot = new Bot(token);
```

Reviewer: @KnorpelSenf Yes, should we do something like that?^

Reviewer 2: Yes, thanks!

Just check the variable token directly ;)
